---
layout: page
title: Functional programming UZ 2022
permalink: /teaching/unizar2022/en/
---

Welcome to *Advanced programming techniques: the functional paradigm*!

The course will take place in 2022.

* auto-gen TOC:
{:toc}

## News

 * **22 February 2022**

   Course proposal approved by the University of Zaragoza.

## Description

Functional programming is the main alternative to the standard model of
imperative programming. It is based on an equivalent but very different model
of computability, based around values and functions that operate on those
values. Its proximity to this familiar mathematical model results in programs
that are especially simple to understand and analyze, where the presence of
programming errors is much less likely. Even more, it is possible to completely
rule out certain classes of bugs automatically or with relative ease. These
qualities, together with the growing influence of the functional programming
paradigm in the evolution of mainstream general-purpose imperative languages,
make functional programming into one of the most useful tools for anyone
interested in the development of quality software, and the shortest path to
fully correct and efficient programs. This course introduces these important
concepts through OCaml, one of the leading modern functional programming
languages, through applied sessions that combine the exploration of principles
and their practice, together with the development environments and software
ecosystems grown around the language.

## Requirements and registration

Available soon.

## Syllabus

Available soon.

## Grading

Available soon.

## Materials

Available soon.

## Times and dates

Available soon.

## Online spaces

Available soon.

## Organizers

[Roberto Blanco](https://robblanco.github.io/) is a postdoctoral researcher at
the Max Planck Institute for Security and Privacy (MPI-SP), previously at the
Inria research center in Paris---home of the Cambium research team, where
development of the OCaml programming language originates. He holds degrees in
computer engineering from the University of Zaragoza and a doctorate in
computer science from Université Paris-Saclay, prepared at École polytechnique.
His research interest revolve around the development of formal methods and
their application to the verification and security of computer systems, with a
focus on secure compilation.


[Ricardo J. Rodríguez](https://webdiis.unizar.es/~ricardo/) is an associate
professor at the School of Engineering and Architecture of the University of
Zaragoza. He holds degrees and a doctorate in computer engineering from the
University of Zaragoza. His research is focused on the analysis of systems
properties such as performance, security and dependability.

## Sponsors

The course is generously sponsored by the OCaml Software Foundation.
